WEBVTT
In this lecture, we look at how to manage certificates and what the certificate API is in Kubernetes.
So what have we done so far?
I, as an administrator of the cluster, in the process of setting up the whole cluster, have set up
a CA server and a bunch of certificates for various components.
We then started the services using the right certificates and is all up and working, and the only administrator
and user of the cluster, and I have my own admin certificate and key.
A new admin comes into my team.
She needs access to the cluster.
We need to get her a pair of certificate and key pair for her to access the cluster.
She creates her own private key, generates a certificate signing request and sends it to me since I'm
the only admin.
I then take the certificate signing request to my CA server.
Gets it signed by the CA server using the CA server's private key and root certificate, Effect, thereby
generating a certificate, and then sends the certificate back to her.
She now has her own valid pair of certificate and key that she can use to access the cluster.
The certificates have a validity period.
It ends after a period of time.
Every time it expires, we follow the same process of generating a new CSR and getting it signed by
the CA.
So we keep rotating the certificate files.
So we keep talking about the CA server.
What is the CA server and where is it located in the Kubernetes setup?
The CA is really just a pair of key and certificate files we have generated.
Whoever gains access to these pair of files can sign any certificate for the Kubernetes environment.
They can create as many users as they want with whatever privileges they want.
So these files need to be protected and stored in a safe environment.
So we place them on a server that is fully secured.
Now that server becomes your CA server.
The certificate key file is safely stored in that server and only on that server.
Every time you want to sign a certificate, you can only do it by logging in to that server.
As of now, we have the certificates placed on the Kubernetes master node itself.
So the master node is also RCA server.
The kube adm tool does the same thing.
It creates a CA pair of files and stores that on the master node itself.
So far we have been signing requests manually, but as and when the users increase and your team grows,
you need a better automated way to manage the certificates signing requests, as well as to rotate certificates
when they expire.
Kubernetes has a built in certificates API that can do this for you.
With the certificates API, you now send a certificate signing request directly to Kubernetes through
an API call.
This time, when the administrator receives a certificate signing Assigning requests instead of logging
on to the master node and signing the certificate by himself, he creates a Kubernetes API object called
certificate signing request.
Once the object is created, all certificate signing requests can be seen by administrators of the cluster.
The requests can be reviewed and approved easily using kube control commands.
This certificate can then be extracted and shared with the user.
Let's see how it is done.
A user first creates a key, then generates a certificate signing request using the key with her name
on it, then sends the request to the administrator.
The administrator takes a key and creates a certificate signing request object.
The certificate signing request object is created like any other Kubernetes object, using a manifest
file with the usual fields the kind a certificate signing request under the spec section.
The request field is where you specify the certificate signing request sent by the user, but you don't
specify it as plain text.
Instead, it must be encoded using the base64 command.
Then move the encoded text into the request field and then submit the request once the object is created.
All certificate signing requests can be seen by administrators by running the kube control.
Get CSR command.
Identify the new request and approve the request by running the Kube control certificate.
Approve command.
Kubernetes signs the certificate using the CA key pairs and generates a certificate for the user.
This certificate can then be extracted and shared with the user.
View the certificate by viewing it in a YAML format.
The generated certificate is part of the output, but as before, it is in a base64 encoded format.
To decode it, take the text and use the base64 utilities decode option.
This gives the certificate in a plain text format.
This can then be shared with the end user.
Now that we have seen how it works, let's see who does all of this for us.
If you look at the Kubernetes control plane, you see the kube API server, the scheduler, the control
manager, etcd server, etc. which of these components is actually responsible for all the certificate
related operations?
All the certificate related operations are carried out by the controller manager.
If you look closely at the Controller manager, you will see that it has controllers in it called as
CSR, approving, CSR signing, etc. the responsible for carrying out these specific tasks.
We know that if anyone has to sign certificates, they need the CCA server's root certificate and private
key.
The Controller Manager service configuration has two options where you can specify this.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and play around with the certificates API.
I will see you in the next lecture.