WEBVTT
In this lecture we look at securing your Kubernetes cluster with TLS certificates.
In the previous lecture, we saw what public and private keys are, how a server uses public and private
keys to secure connectivity.
We will call them serving certificates.
We saw what a certificate authority is.
We learned that the CA has its own set of public and private key pairs that it uses to sign server certificates.
We will call them root certificates.
We also saw how a server can request a client to verify themselves using client certificates.
So three types of certificates.
Server certificates configured on the server's root certificate configured on the CA servers, and then
client certificates configured on the clients.
And a quick note on naming convention.
Before we go forward, you're going to see a lot of certificate files in this lecture.
And it could be very confusing.
So use this technique to know which one is which.
Usually certificates with public keys are named CRT or PEM extension.
So that's server CRT or server PEM for server certificates or client CRT or client PEM for client certificates.
And private keys are usually with extension key or with a key in the file names, for example server
dot key or server key dot pen.
So just remember private keys have the word key in them, usually either as an extension or in the name
of the certificate, and one that doesn't have the word key in them is usually a public key or certificate.
That's how I remember it.
We will now see how these concepts relate to a Kubernetes cluster.
The Kubernetes cluster consists of a set of master and worker nodes.
Of course, all communication between these nodes need to be secure and must be encrypted.
All interactions between all services and their clients need to be secure.
For example, an administrator interacting with a Kubernetes cluster through the kube control utility
or via accessing the Kubernetes API I directly must establish secure TLS connection communication between
all the components within the Kubernetes cluster.
Also need to be secured.
So the two primary requirements are to have all the various services within the cluster to use server
certificates, and all clients to use client certificates to verify they are who they say they are.
Let's look at the different components within the Kubernetes cluster and identify the various servers
and clients and who talks to who.
Let's start with the kube API server.
As we know already, the API server exposes an Https service that other components as well as external
users use to manage the Kubernetes cluster.
So it is a server and it requires certificates to secure all communication with its clients.
So we generate a certificate and key pair.
We call it API server, dot cert and API server key.
We will try to stick to this naming convention going forward.
Anything with a CR extension is the certificate and key extension is the private key.
Also remember, the certificate names could be different in different Kubernetes setups depending on
who and how the cluster was set up.
So these names may be different in yours.
In this lecture, we will try to use names that help us easily identify the certificate files.
Another server in the cluster is the etcd server.
The etcd server stores all information about the cluster, so it requires a pair of certificate and
key for itself.
We will call it etcd server and etcd server key.
The other server component in the cluster is on the worker nodes.
There are the Kubelet services.
They also expose an https api endpoint that the kube API server talks to to interact with the worker
nodes.
Again, that requires a certificate and key pair.
We call it Kubelet cert and Kubelet key.
Those are really the server components in the Kubernetes cluster.
Let's now look at the client components.
Who are the clients who access these services?
The clients who access the kube API server are us the administrators through cube control or Rest API.
The admin user requires a certificate and key pair to authenticate to the cube API server.
We will call it admin and admin key.
The scheduler talks to the cube API server to look for pods that require scheduling, and then get the
API server to schedule the pods on the right worker nodes.
The scheduler is a client that accesses the cube API server.
As far as the cube API server is concerned, the scheduler is just another client like the admin user,
so the scheduler needs to validate its identity using a client TLS certificate.
So it needs its own pair of certificate and keys.
We will call it scheduler cert and scheduler key.
The cube controller manager is another client that accesses the cube API server, so it also requires
a certificate for authentication to the cube API server.
So we create a certificate pair for it.
The last client component is the cube proxy.
The cube proxy requires a client certificate to authenticate to the kube API server, and so it requires
its own pair of certificate and keys.
We will call them kube proxy and kube proxy key.
The servers communicate amongst them as well.
For example the kube API server communicates with the etcd server.
In fact, of all the components, the kube API server is the only server that talks to the etcd server.
So as far as the etcd server is concerned, the kube API server is a client, so it needs to authenticate.
The kube API server can use the same keys that it used earlier for serving its own API service, the
API server and the API server key files.
Or you can generate a new pair of certificates specifically for the kube API server to authenticate
to the etcd server.
The kube API server also talks to the Kubelet server on each of the individual nodes.
That's how it monitors the worker nodes.
For this, again, it can use the original certificates or generate new ones specifically for this purpose.
So that's too many certificates.
Let's try and group them.
There are a set of client certificates, mostly used by clients to connect to the API server, and there
are a set of server side certificates used by the API server, etcd server and Kubelet to authenticate
their clients.
We will now see how to generate these certificates.
As we know already, we need a certificate authority to sign all of these certificates.
Kubernetes requires you to have at least one certificate authority for your cluster.
In fact, you can have more than one one for all the components in the cluster, and another one specifically
for etcd.
In that case, the etcd server certificates and etcd servers client certificates, which in this case
is the API server client certificate will be all signed by etcd server CA.
For now we will stick to just one CA for our cluster.
The CA as we know has its own pair of certificate and key.
We will call it CA and see a key that should sum up all the certificates used in the cluster.