WEBVTT
In this lecture, we will discuss about scenarios where you might have to take down nodes as part of
your cluster, say for maintenance purposes like upgrading a base software or applying patches like
security patches, etc. on your cluster.
In this lecture, we will see the options available to handle such cases.
So you have a cluster with a few nodes and pods serving applications.
What happens when one of these nodes go down?
Of course the pods on them are not accessible.
Now, depending upon how you deploy those pods, your users may be impacted.
For example, since you have multiple replicas of the pod, the users accessing the blue application
are not impacted as they are being served through the other blue pod that's online.
However, users accessing the green pod are impacted as that was the only pod running the green application.
Now, what does Kubernetes do in this case?
If the node came back online immediately, then the kube control process starts and the pods come back
online.
However, if the node was down for more than five minutes, then the pods are terminated from that node.
Well, Kubernetes considers them as dead.
If the pods were part of a replica set, then they are recreated on other nodes.
The time it waits for a pod to come back online is known as the Pod eviction timeout, and is set on
the controller manager with a default value of five minutes.
So whenever a node goes offline, the master node waits for up to five minutes before considering the
node dead.
When the node comes back online after the pod eviction timeout, it comes up blank without any pods
scheduled on it.
Since the blue pod was part of a replica set, it had a new pod created on another node.
However, since the green part was not part of a replica set, it's just gone.
Thus, if you have maintenance tasks to be performed on a node, if you know that the workloads running
on the node have other replicas, and if it's okay that they go down for a short period of time, and
if you're sure the node will come back online within five minutes, you can make a quick upgrade and
reboot.
However, you do not for sure know if a node is going to be back online in five minutes.
Well, you cannot for sure say it is going to be back at all.
So there is a safer way to do it.
You can purposefully drain the node of all the workloads so that the workloads are moved to other nodes
in the cluster.
Well, technically they are not moved.
When you drain a node, the pods are gracefully terminated from the node that they are on and recreated
on another.
The node is also cordoned or marked as unschedulable, meaning no pods can be scheduled on this node
until you specifically remove the restriction.
Now that the pods are safe on the other nodes, you can reboot the first node.
When it comes back online, it is still unschedulable.
You then need to un coordinate so that the pods can be scheduled on it again.
Now remember, the pods that were moved to the other nodes don't automatically fall back if any of those
pods were deleted, or if new pods were created in the cluster, then they would be created on this
node.
Apart from drain and UN cordon, there is also another command called cordon.
Cordon simply marks a node.
Unschedulable.
Unlike drain, it does not terminate or move the pods on an existing node.
It simply makes sure that new pods are not scheduled on that node.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and Practice Training, coding and encoding a node.
I will see you in the next lecture.